it's one thing to rank really high on
google but it's another thing to
actually maintain and keep your rankings
so how do you ensure that when you spend
all this time doing seo and ranking for
competitive key terms like i am here how
do you ensure that you actually maintain
and keep your rankings hey everyone i'm
neil patel and today i'm going to teach
you how to protect your seo rankings
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
so the first thing i want you to do is
actually google the term google search
console
and once you do that you'll see some
results like this the second link will
be welcome to google search console for
you it may be the number one link
click on it and once you click on it i
want you to add your site to google
search console
now if you've already added your site to
google search console great you can skip
this step and you can fast forward it in
the video but if you haven't i'm just
going to show you how to do it
i've already added neil patel so i'm
going to make up a domain name like neil
k patel
and click continue
check verification and then you verify
or you can verify later
and then once you do that
and you're within google search console
and you verify your site it really is
that simple then you can go and select
your property so i'm going to end up
selecting neilpatel.com
and as you can see here once you select
neilpatel.com or your own website you'll
see your traffic over time it'll show
you if there's any issues with things
like amp
or if there's issues with breadcrumbs
but i know it's hard and cumbersome to
log into google search console each and
every single day and you may forget so i
want you to do something really simple
when you sign up you log in you add your
website what you'll find is on a monthly
basis you'll get emails from google
search console
now here's example some of the emails
that i'm getting for neilpatel.com
and as you can see here
they'll even do things like send me a
performance overview of how i performed
in the month here's my april numbers
clicks impressions your new top content
your top performing gains your how do
people find you
top performing queries learn about your
audience what i like looking at is new
top growing queries those are terms that
you can focus on
and it just gives you a rough overview
but here's what's interesting if i go
back to the search results
google will tell you when there's issues
with your website that they see now this
doesn't guarantee that your rankings are
going to stay at this top but it
increases the chances that you stay at
the top and you maintain your rankings
over time or if you're not there it at
least increases your odds that you'll
rank higher for example here's the issue
that they detected breadcrumb issues on
neilpatel.com
and i'll send these emails to my
developer or i'll fix it myself if i
know how to and it gives you information
on the air and then when you
fix it then you just validate that error
and it'll tell you that they're
validating it and they'll even tell you
if they'll accept it or not
and they'll constantly tell you when
there's issues
so for example
you saw the
breadcrumb issue
and right here here's another one amp
these are the mobile friendly pages amp
issues detected on neilpatel.com
reference amp url is not an amp in
essence page so something that i would
send to my developers to fix or i can do
it myself
and when you submit for errors
if
you validate them and everything goes
well
great you know and they'll constantly
tell you all right it's fixed like here
is coverage issues detected another one
500 error on the server so went and
fixed that and submitted it and when i
submitted it
sometimes for the 500 errors it says
some fixes failed
and when i say some success fail then i
go and then i try to validate and fix it
again
but if you do this and you constantly do
this what you'll find is over time
you'll fix
each and every single one of those
issues that google is seeing on your
site which will then increase the odds
that you'll maintain your rankings and
if you're not ranking that well if you
fix all the issues that they continually
send you over time your ranking should
climb as well
and if you just do this it's a great way
to just ensure that you rank a little
bit higher at least maintain a little
bit more rankings and have less
fluctuations over time if you have any
questions feel free to leave a comment
below if you enjoyed the video like it
share it tell the people about it and if
you just want my team to do all of this
work for you and help improve your seo
check out my ad agency np digital thank
you very much